k0s 1.36 release blog (#15)
k0sproject/blog: content/posts/k0s-1.36-released/index.md

Reviewer: Can we hard-wrap this? Makes commenting easier 😅

---

> title: "k0s 1.36 Released: containerd 2.3, Safer etcd Scaling, and Expanded Platform Support"

Reviewer: We should emphasize that this is a major bump from 1.7 to 2.x. Also, just assuming that the last part is about Windows?

```suggestion
title: "k0s 1.36 Released: containerd 2, safer etcd scaling, and expanded Windows support"
```

date: 2026-06-12
draft: true
author: Jussi Nummelin (@jnummelin)
tags: ["k0s", "release", "kubernetes", "containerd", "etcd"]
cover:
  image: k8s-haru-480.png
  alt: "Kubernetes v1.36 Haru logo"
  caption: "Kubernetes v1.36 Haru release logo - Image from [Kubernetes v1.36 Release Announcement](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2026/04/22/kubernetes-v1-36-release/)"
---

> We're excited to announce the release of k0s 1.36, now powered by Kubernetes 1.36. This release makes a meaningful leap in three areas: the runtime layer moves to containerd 2.3 with improved configuration handling and clearer upgrade guidance; the control plane becomes more resilient with a series of etcd reliability improvements that make multi-controller deployments safer to scale and recover; and platform flexibility grows with Traefik as an alternative node-local load balancing backend - bringing NLLB to Windows and ARMv7 nodes where Envoy was not an option.

Reviewer: > We're excited to announce the release of k0s 1.36, now powered by Kubernetes 1.36. This release makes a meaningful leap in three areas:

Who is we? Same for "our" a few lines below.

Alternative suggestion:

> k0s 1.36 has finally been released! Based on upstream Kubernetes 1.36, this release brings meaningful enhancements in three areas:

> We're excited to announce the release of k0s 1.36, now powered by Kubernetes 1.36. This release makes a meaningful leap in three areas: the runtime layer moves to containerd 2.3 with improved configuration handling and clearer upgrade guidance; the control plane becomes more resilient with a series of etcd reliability improvements that make multi-controller deployments safer to scale and recover; and platform flexibility grows with Traefik as an alternative node-local load balancing backend - bringing NLLB to Windows and ARMv7 nodes where Envoy was not an option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're excited to announce k0s 1.36, based on Kubernetes 1.36. This release improves three key areas: the container runtime upgrades to containerd 2.3, with better configuration handling and clearer upgrade instructions; multi-controller deployments become more stable and easier to recover, thanks to etcd reliability fixes; and node-local load balancing now supports Traefik as an alternative backend, enabling this feature on Windows and ARMv7 nodes where Envoy wasn't supported.
```
